Test, test, this is a test. Today's date is June
13th, 1983. This is an interview with General
Cargill at Texas A&M University, 2 p.m. This is a
test.
Today is June 13, 1983. I'm interviewing General
Cargill at Texas A&M. This is Terry Anderson.
Let's start off with your early years. You were
born in Waco. Could you tell us when? Yes, I was born
in 1931 on the 22nd of September. And I was born in
Hillcrest Hospital in Waco, Texas, which is the
county seat for McLennan County. But I was
actually, my mother and father were actually
living in a little country town south of Waco. So I
claim Eddie, E-D-D-Y, Eddie, Texas as my
hometown. And of course, since that was the
closest hospital, that's why I left Waco as my
place of birth. But I've never lived in Waco. I've
always lived, my hometown's always been Eddie.
And that's in the very southernmost part of
McLennan County, which is very near the
geographical center of the state. Could we talk
about your parents? I'd really like to know about
their occupation, the type of people that they
were, and maybe a little bit about your mom and your
dad, their background. OK. My father was born at
Rogers, Texas, which is near Temple. And I'm not
sure what county that's in, but it's just outside
of Temple, which is in Bell County. I've
forgotten the year he was born, but he was born in
1896 on August the something. And he was the eldest
of some nine or 10 kids. Of course, in those days,
people had big families. And they lived on a farm,
and I think one or two of his brothers and maybe one
of his sisters died in their early childhood of
what we would call today relatively minor things,
things like pneumonia or something like that. But
in any event, he grew into manhood as a farm boy. In
addition to the regular farm work, well, that area
of the country was heavily wooded at that time, and
they did a lot of things like cut and haul wood to the
sawmill for lumber. He was a mule skinner, drove a
team of four mules. And so they lived in that part of
the country for a while. Then they moved up in the
northern Texas to a little out from a little
community called May Pearl, Texas. And I'm not
real sure just where May Pearl is, but it's up all
somewhere south of Dallas, I think. I'm not sure.
But in any event, at the time they were living
there, he joined the... the National Guard. And
after he'd been in the National Guard for a while,
he was called active duty during the First World
War. And I think he, well, their ranks then weren't
exactly the same as our ranks are now. His title was
Waggoner. They found out that he drove mules, was a
mule skinner when he was a young man. When I say
young man, I mean 16, 17, 18 years old. And so they
were looking for experienced people that could
drive a team of mules, so he was a mule skinner, or a
wagoner, was his official military rank. And he
was in the U.S. Army? He was in the U.S. Army, and
this was during the Second World War. First.
Excuse me, First World War, right. He never had to
go overseas. He was getting ready to take off for
the port of embarkation when the armistice was
signed. So he never saw any duty. However, he says
that from some of the sergeants that he had, he had
preferred duty over some of the superiors he
served under. Did he leave Texas? No. Or was he
trained? He was trained here in Texas at Camp
Bullis, which I believe is in San Antonio. I'm not
sure what camp. It's still an existing facility of
some type. But in any event, he was discharged from
there. Then he moved to the little town where I was
born, Eddy, and went into the wholesale oil
business. He was a Sinclair Oil distributor,
which was a, I don't know if you remember the old
Sinclair Oil Company. And I think later on it
changed to ARCO. I think that Atlantic Richfield
is a surviving company from the old Sinclair
Company. Their symbol was the dinosaur. Well, he
had a wholesale oil distributing company in the
late 20s,
and apparently was doing quite well with it and
selling primarily to farmers in the McLennan
County, Bell County region. And then, of course,
in 1929, the Depression hit. And people were not
able to pay their bills and to make a long story
short, he had to shut down his business with lots of
accounts receivables on the books. And this was
probably in about 1930, thereabouts.
And of course, I was born in 31 to complicate the
situation. He had been married, I guess, mother
and dad had been married almost two years when I was
born. And so... At that time, he was very active in
the Democratic Party. And in keeping with the
patronage system that was in effect at that time,
and to maybe some extent still is, he was named the
postmaster for the little town of Eddy. What a
stroke of luck. Was just one of the few cash-paying
positions in that whole part of the country. And so
he was the postmaster there throughout my
childhood and up until I was a teenager. And then
about 1946, which would have made me about 14 or 15
years old, then he transferred to the rural mail
route and was a rural mail carrier. On the surface,
you'd think, well, that's a step down from the
postmaster. But the rural mail carrier's job paid
more money. And plus, he'd get through about 1.30,
2 o'clock in the afternoon. So he'd have some time
off in the afternoon. And he went ahead and retired
as a rural mail carrier. So he has a federal pension
now. Right. Both my mother and father still live in
Eddy. And so he retired a few years back. I've
forgotten exactly when. But he was in the mail
service for, well, from around 1930 until, oh, I
would say 1975, something like that. So he had a
long time. in the federal service. What impact,
besides economically, did the Depression have a
psychological impact on him in any sense? I mean,
to have a business like that and then to lose it? I
think it affected my mother. Probably more than my
father. Of course, I'm just surely speculating
because being an infant at the time, I really
wasn't in a position to observe. But dad's always
been kind of an easy come, easy go kind of a guy that
was very adaptable and just was a very happy type
person no matter what came. I do feel that, of
course, a small town is a rough place for a young
couple to grow up in, because there's nothing to
do. And I would think probably that it had an impact
on my mother more than my father, although I
wouldn't. I just wouldn't know. Disappointment,
probably. Feeling that, why me? No, that kind of
deal. However, in a town, in a small country town,
in our town especially, one of the chief social
activities was the church. And our town was split
between the Southern Baptist and the Methodist.
And there were a few others, but those were the two
predominant churches there. And so I would think
that in a small community like that, everybody
knows everybody else, knows all their kids, all
their family histories. It's just like one big
family. Well, the depression hit everybody about
the same. You know, everybody was just flat broke
and, you know, I mean, literally helping each
other by giving them food so they wouldn't starve,
those kinds of things. Now, of course, I didn't
experience it myself, but I've heard about it so
much that I feel like I've lived it. And when I say I
didn't experience it myself, I didn't experience
those early days, you know, where really the crash
hit. And, of course, as I say, we fared much better
than most due to my due to the fact that my dad had the
federal job, which was a rarity. Because there was
just one. And there were a couple of clerks
involved. But for a reasonably good paying job,
that was the only one in that part of the country. So
we fared much better than most. But my point is that
even though we were relatively poor, I never knew
we were poor because everybody else was in the same
boat. I didn't have to envy the Joneses because
there were no Joneses. Everybody was in the same
boat. Does that make any sense what I'm trying to
say? Yeah, absolutely. Uniformity. Yeah. And so
that's not a bad word. We were all uniformly
poor. And I've noticed that from many men who went
to A&M during the 1930s and who had many of the
similar experiences. I've heard a lot of this type
of a statement before. Being that everybody's in
the same boat, you all feel sort of equal. Yeah,
that's right. There's sort of an egalitarian of
poverty. Sure. Now, I might tell you a little bit
about my mother, which would tie in with this. I
want you to. OK. My mother was born Maudie Caroline
Cole. In fact, I don't believe I told you my
father's full name. C-O-L-E. My father's full
name is Willie Newton Cargill. And Maudie
Caroline. N-E-W-T-O-N. N-E-W-T-O-N. Right.
Willie Newton. And my mother was born, you know,
shame to tell you, but I'm not sure where she was
born. I think Paris, Texas. And... She was from a
family that had come out of Arkansas, and I'm not
sure where before that. But they, too, were a farm
family, big family,
three or four girls and two or three boys.
Most of them are dead now. My mother has two living
old maid sisters and one living brother, and the
rest of the family is deceased. They were farmers.
And I know that they came from Arkansas and lived in
Oklahoma for a while. And I don't know if they came
to Paris. Well, they must have, because my mother
lived in Oklahoma. So they probably came from
Arkansas to Paris, Texas, where my mother was
born. And then they moved to Oklahoma. And my
mother spent some of her childhood there, lived in
a log cabin type of a house with an upstairs area.
Then they moved to Texas, up near Eddy. And that's
where my father met her, I guess. But in any event,
she went through high school. And then she went in
the nurse's training. Two of her sisters, the two
sisters that are still living are both retired
registered nurses. And she went in the nurse's
training at San Antonio, at the Texas State
Hospital there. And apparently back in those
days, a lot of people performed the nurse's
training at the Texas State Hospital, which is a
mental institution, of course, at the present
time, and I presume was at that time. But she didn't
finish her nurse's training. She got married to
dad before she finished her nurse's training.
Before she, okay, now some of this is going to kind
of, I'm going to have to go back and catch up as I
remember things. Before mother went into nurse's
training, she was a school teacher. Now, back in
those days, you didn't have to have a college
degree, which you never got. She had two years of
college at Mary Harden Baylor University at
Belton, Texas, in Bell County. But after she got
out of school, after she finished two years of
school at Mary Harden Baylor, then she was a
schoolteacher at a little country town out west of
Uvalde called Regan Wells, Texas. Just a little
bitty place, but it's still there. A lot of people
down in that part of the country knows where Regan
Wells is. So she taught school at Regan Wells for a
while. And then she went in the nurse's training.
And then she met dad and married and dropped out of
nurse's training. And then she was a housewife. In
those days, there was some. I hesitate to use the
word stigma because that's not the word I'm
looking for, but there was some hesitancy for
women to work, especially some of the old-time
guys, like my dad, for example, felt that if the
wife worked, then that was a sign that he couldn't
adequately provide for herself. It was an ego
thing. Thank goodness that's behind us because my
wife works, and I don't know what I'd do without it.
But in any event, she was a housewife, and... So
they were married probably in the early 20s? They
were married,
yeah. When he owned the company, mid-20s
probably?
He was in the oil business, I would say, from about
1925 until about 1930, somewhere along in there.
Of course, the crash was in 1929. I would say that he
and mother married, I was born in 1931, and they had
been married about, 18 months. So counting back
from September of 31, back 18 months would have
made it about 1929. So they married probably just
months before the crash hit. And of course, at that
time, Daddy had bought a house.
And Dad had been married previously. He was
married to, I don't even remember the lady's name.
But he was married for a short time, and they
divorced. and my mother had only been married one
time. But in any event, he had a nice house, one of
the nicer homes in town. It's still there,
incidentally, where I spent my early childhood.
And, of course, after Daddy went in the post
office, which was just only a couple blocks down
the street, I can remember he'd come home at
lunchtime, and we'd have lunch together and take a
little nap on the floor in the hallway. That was
before the days of air conditioning. So we'd put a
pallet down on the in the hallway and open all the
doors, and then there would be a draft through
there to keep you cool. But in any event, the mother
was a housewife up until the beginning of the
Second World War. And then she went to work for Blue
Bonnet Ordnance Plant, which is in Belton, excuse
me, which is in McGregor, Texas, working in an
ordinance plant, making bombs.
I think mother worked there about two and a half,
maybe three years. during the war as a patriotic
effort, but also to help with family finances
because, of course, I never remember a time when we
had all the money we needed, just like most
families. So I thought that was an interesting
thing, that Mother was involved with the
ordinance work. I've forgotten what size bombs
they made, but they were conventional weapons,
obviously, at that time. just the regular bombs.
And then right after the war, or right before the
end of the war, she came back home? Yes. Yeah, they
closed down the plant after the war, and then she
came back home, and then she's never worked since
then. I recall that she might have done some
part-time sales work at Christmas time at one of
the stores in Waco. Eddie's only about 18 miles
south of Waco, right on the interstate,
Interstate 35. Used to be, well, it still is,
Highway 81, US 81. Sure. But now it's Interstate
35. It goes north and south. But with the exception
of some part-time work at some of the department
stores, like at Christmastime or rush times, she
never did work. Can you tell me about your dad's
education? Yes. Dad had very little education. As
I recall, he only went through about the fifth or
sixth grade. And he's
an extremely well-educated man. But he did it by
reading and studying, a lot of self-study, but
formal education. As I recall, he only went
through about the fifth and sixth grade. Being the
eldest in a large family, well, he dropped out of
school at an early age to help on the family farm.
He, throughout his adult life, was very, very
active in the Masonic Lodge. And it's been kind of
tradition in our family to, you know, became a
Mason. That was kind of like becoming a Southern
Baptist. It was just expected and something you
look forward to. I'm an active Mason. Through his
Masonic work, he's done a lot of reading, a lot of
public speaking. When he was the postmaster, the
postmaster in these little country towns back in
the 30s was really kind of the center of political
influence. When all the politicians would come
through, Dad would be the first person they'd go
see because he could influence a lot of votes and so
forth. Now, when Jim Farley was the postmaster
general, Jim Farley used to come through town.
He'd always stop and see Dad. And Dad was an
excellent public speaker, taught Sunday school
class for years. And through his speaking in
connection with Masonic Lodge, he would just use
his flawless English and just I consider a very
well-educated man, even though he only had a very
limited formal education. How would you say he was
a Democrat? In what sense was he a Democrat? I mean,
there's so many different types in America. Was he
a Lyndon Johnson man? Was he a FDR Democrat? He was
basically an FDR Democrat. Of course, keep in mind
The time and place. I would say if I had to put a label
on him now, looking back, I would say he's a
conservative Democrat. Although in those days,
the liberal and conservative labels hadn't
really been developed yet. You were either
Republican or Democrat. And when I was raised to
believe that Republican was almost like some kind
of social disease, we had one or two Republicans in
town. And when they'd go down the street,
everybody's like, hey, there goes that
Republican. I thought the guy had something wrong
with him for a long time before I realized that this
was a political party. And it's really odd, but
people just really, if you were a Republican, you
were an outcast in that part of the country. So
basically, the vast majority of people were
Democrats. And then, of course, you got into your
primaries is where the real infighting. Because
until this good day, in many parts of Texas, as you
probably know, being nominated by the Democratic
Party is tantamount to election. And that's
probably true still at that little voting box. I
doubt if it's going Republican ever. And it may not
ever go Republican, although I personally vote
for the for the candidate as opposed to a party. I'm
a registered Democrat, but that doesn't mean that
I always vote a straight ticket by any means. But in
any event, he's... So you would consider him a
conservative, basically? I would consider him
basically a conservative. And then what impact
did his political beliefs have on you?
I would think that due to the austere conditions
that we were living in financially, that I became a
very conservative from a fiscal standpoint. Due
to a lot of human suffering that went on around me, I
became somewhat liberal as far as people are
concerned. Now, the two are not always
compatible. And so I would consider myself
growing out of the conservative fiscal
environment and the liberalism from human
suffering that was around me, that I would almost
label myself as, well, I would have to label myself
as a conservative Democrat.
Liberal on people programs, but only to the extent
that you can afford them. And in other words,
I'm getting in deep water here now. Let me see if I
can express myself so that it comes through the way
I want it to. I feel very strongly that everyone
should be able to, that no one should starve, that
no one should not have clothing, that no one should
be without shelter. But I don't go much past that as
far as the welfare programs. Now, how you draw the
line between getting the freeloaders off and
helping people that legitimately need help It's a
fine line, and it almost has to be something that is
a judgment call on somebody's part.
But, you know, I would do anything to keep anyone
from being hungry because I've seen people hungry
before.
So political ideology for you is much more complex
than just saying you're a liberal or you're a
conservative. It is. Labels get you in trouble.
Well, they sure do. Labels get you in trouble.
Yeah. But I
would say that fiscally, I'm a very staunch
conservative. I just don't believe in spending
money you don't have. It's because sooner or
later, payday's coming. And it's so much better to
don't bite off more than you can chew and go ahead
and behave yourself responsibly than it is to try
to get well after you really get sick. I think
that's the trouble that this country's been in. I
think that we've gone through a real rough
recession, but I think it's something that we had
to do to get over some of the problems we had. And so I
feel real good about our economy and our country
right now, better than I have for a long time.
That's not to say we're well, a long way from being
well. Well, even with these deficits, that must
bother you. Oh, it does, very much, very much. I
don't know how closely you follow the advocacy of
Phil Graham, but I'm a real Phil Graham guy. I think
Phil's got it pretty well lined up right, and I
think a lot of people have. I'm very strongly for a
constitutional amendment that would prohibit
deficit budgets. It's worked well for us here in
Texas. You may or may not know we've got that here.
We've had it for years. As a result, we're one of the
strongest states in the union as far as from a
fiscal responsibility standpoint. And I'm
convinced that we don't have deficits for one
reason and one reason only, and that is the
Constitution won't permit it. If our politicians
had the authority, they'd spin us blind just the
way they're doing in Washington. So that's why I'm
so strongly for a constitutional amendment to
prevent deficit budgets at the federal level. Of
course, Phil's working very hard for that, and I
hope he's successful. I'll do what I can to help
him. Tell me about your mother's political
ideology. Was she very involved, or did she get
involved, or did she leave it to the men? I don't
recall mothers being involved too much in state or
federal politics. Now, she's always had a strong
interest in local politics. By that, I'm talking
about maybe like members of the school board.
Sure. Since it was an unincorporated city, we
didn't have a city council or anything like that.
We do now, but not at that time. As I recall, Mother
ran for the school board one time because she was
upset about something. Mother is a crusader type.
If she doesn't like something, she doesn't just
ignore it and go on her way. She tries to go fix it.
And as a result, she ran for the school board one
time. She was defeated, but at least she got it out
of her system that she made the effort. But I don't
recall Mother ever being
too keen on state or national politics other than
the fact that she had an interest in it because of
dad's position in town or what have you. Who is the
authority in the household?
I would say that's a hard question to answer. I
would say it's
more or less a sharing type of an arrangement.
Mother and Dad always talked about things
together. Dad was very prone to let Mother do what
she wanted to do up to a point. But he had the ability
to put his foot down and say, we're not going to do
that. And then she knew to pull in because Dad had
finally made a decision. But he was the kind of guy
that really didn't matter too much. He was
perfectly willing to do pretty well what Mother
wanted to do. And for example, in discipline,
mother nearly always was a disciplinarian in the
family with me. And I was the only child for a long
time. I was 15, 16 years old before my second
brother came along. I'll tell you about that in a
minute. But if there was any spanking or whipping,
mother nearly always did it. But if I really need
punishing bad, then dad laid the belt on me. And I
don't think he ever whipped me over two or three
times. But I remember those two or three times
pretty well. And of course, Mother was the
disciplinarian and more spankings and
switchings than anything else. And I didn't get
them unless I really needed them. But I was a
mischievous kid, the way most kids are. But I think
pretty well disciplined. At least everyone says
that I was. Well, you mentioned before that there
were two types in your town. There were either
Southern Baptists or there were Methodists. What
was your family and what role did religion have in
your upbringing? We were Southern Baptists and
are to this day. My wife was from a similar type
background from a religious standpoint,
Southern Baptist, so we married in the Southern
Baptist Church, still members of the First
Baptist Church here in Bryan. The church...
played a very major role in my early childhood and
all through my life and still does.
I don't know how much you know about Southern
Baptists, but it's a fundamentalist type
religion. And I believe the Bible pretty well
literally. Of course, there's a lot of people in
the denomination that are breaking away from that
to some extent. There's always argumentation.
Yeah, always argument. Was the world really
created? Six days and on the seventh day will God
rest. My concept of God has changed over a period of
time. But back in those days, it was very dogmatic.
There was no room for latitude. It was A, B, C, black
and white. And I don't guess the church ever opened
that I wasn't there on the front row. I was a song
leader in the church when I was a younger man. I
played then and still do the piano. And
occasionally I would play a special number in
front of the church or play the hymns while the
church had the song service. I was very active as a
Sunday school teacher and in what we call the
training union, which was the Sunday night time
activity.
Those early religious teachings, up until the
time I left to come to college, that was just a
given. There was never any question about are we
going to church Sunday or are we not. We were always
there.
Were your parents active also? Yes. Dad was always
a Sunday school teacher. Mother was always there.
I don't recall if she ever taught any classes or
not. I'm not real sure whether she did or not. She
was not the type that liked to get in front of a group
and talk too much. But dad was. He was kind of the ham
of the family, still is. Loves to get up in front of a
group of people and talk, and will at the drop of a
hat. And he's 87 now. But in any event, to answer
your question, the church had a very profound
impact on my life, developed a lot of my
philosophies about how you deal with people, your
respect for individuals, respect for life,
respect for property. Most of my moral teachings
were, of course, The home was just an extension of
the things I learned in church. And so it's
difficult for me to say that I learned it in church
or I learned it at home because they all melded
together. But to
answer your question, the church, yes, had a very
strong impact on my life. childhood, youth, and
all my whole life, and thus today. OK. Now, if I
asked you to characterize, I mean to say what type
of characters your parents were, could you give me
sort of a rundown? I mean, you've talked around
this now for a while. I would say that
my father was a very strong but quiet person. that
avoided controversy when possible, but if he got
in a position where he had to take a stand, he'd
always take it, and a strong one. Whereas Mother,
on the other hand, was argumentative to some
extent. I'm using past tense like they're gone.
They both still fit this category.
Mother would argue for the sake of argument, and at
the drop of a hat would disagree with anyone. And by
the same token, she didn't carry that too far. She
saw that a rift or a problem was developing with one
of her neighbors or one of her kinfolks. Well, then
she knew when to pull in her horns. She was the more
aggressive of the two as far as being an outspoken
domineering. If you logged conversation, dad
would probably talk 20% of the time and mother 80%
of the time. if that makes any sense.
But very loving, affectionate couple. I would say
that as the years went by and my two other brothers
came along, and I mentioned that we got an
interesting situation there I'll tell you about.
Because of the influence of the kids and the
parents the requirement of time on mother's part,
I think that probably mother and dad grew further
apart as a result of having the three boys than they
were, as I recall them, in my early childhood. In
other words, it was an outward show of affection
frequently when I was a younger kid. But I don't
recall too much of that in the later years,
although they hugged and kissed. Two more young
children. Yeah. Right. And of course, I'm sure
it's just because of the time involved in raising a
child. But in any event, when I was about 15 or 16,
mother and daddy were still relatively young at
that time. And the doctor had told mother that she
couldn't have any more children because of some
physical problems she had. So they had an
opportunity to adopt my middle-sized brother.
and got him when I think he was six weeks old. And his
name is Stephen Lee Cargill. And we had him, I
guess, probably about a year and a half, maybe two
years. And then lo and behold, my mother became
pregnant with my younger brother. And I
understand afterwards that that happens
occasionally. I don't know how frequently it
happens, but it does happen. But the conditions,
her physical conditions, whatever prevented her
from conceiving, cleared up and so quite
unexpectedly she became pregnant with my younger
brother so I have two brothers middle-sized
adopted brother and then my younger brother who's
the natural brother and what do they do my
middle-sized brother graduated from from the
school we have a there are two little towns they're
Bruceville which is just two miles north of Eddy
and they have a consolidated school district
which is between the two towns Bruceville Eddy And
he graduated from Bruceville High School. Excuse
me, what am I saying? Bruceville Eddy High School.
And then he went to Southwest Texas State
University for about a year and a half, two years.
And then he dropped out of college and went to work
for KCEN TV station in Temple, Texas, which covers
this broadcast area, Channel 6. And he still works
for them. Oh, really? What does he do? He was a
production coordinator. working on
commercials, you know, the actual production and
running cameras and just utility type work for
several years. Then he had an opportunity to go
into marketing, selling commercials and so
forth. So he's been a marketing man for KCEN now
for, I guess, at least five years. And he calls on
the Temple Belton area and enjoys it and probably
go ahead and make a career out of the TV business. My
younger brother He graduated from Bruce Liddy and
went to school at North Texas University. Let me
see.
Yes, okay. He graduated from North Texas State
University in accounting. In the 60s sometime.
Yes. I'd be hesitant to guess what year, but in the
60s. And then he got out of school and went to work
for Lone Star Steel Company in Dallas. They had a
plant at Dangerfield, Texas. And he worked in the
home office and their accounting office and then
their insurance benefits program, what have you.
And then he left them and went back to school and got
a master's degree in accounting. Then he got out
and did. And then after that, he got his CPA. So then
he got out and did some private CPA practice. And
also, I'm not real sure just what he did, but it was a
relatively short period of time. And then he was
married at some time. In the meantime, he's since
divorced, has one child. Jason is about, oh, I
would say 11, 12 years old now. They just divorced a
couple years ago, a year and a half. But in any
event, then he went back to the University of
Missouri and has completed coursework on his PhD
in accounting. And he's now teaching school at
East Texas State University while he's writing
his dissertation. And he should finish his
dissertation by December. Hopefully the degree
will be granted in December. And then he'll
continue on as a college professor. That's what he
wants to do the rest of his life is to teach
accounting. It seems somewhat unusual that you
became a general and neither of your brothers even
went into the military. They were both of age
during the Vietnam conflict. My little brother
did. It's
almost a comical story. My mother was afraid he was
going to get drafted and she wanted him to be in the
Air Force so she kept on him to volunteer for the Air
Force. Well, at that time, there was a long waiting
list to get in the Air Force because a lot of people
wanted to get in the Air Force instead of the
infantry because they felt their chances for
survival or whatever, for whatever reasons.
Well, he couldn't get in the Air Force, so he went
down to join the Marine Corps so that he wouldn't
have to go in the infantry. That's kind of like it.
So in any event, he went up through the ranks. He
never never really was called active duty because
apparently the conflict ended about the time he
completed his boot camp or what have you. So he
stayed in the reserve for a number of years and
worked his rank up to tech sergeant in the Marine
Corps. And so then he just dropped out of the
reserves to go ahead and continue with his
schoolwork. But he's very seriously considering
going back into applying for OTS or whatever the
Marines call it and try to get a commission. and go
back in the Marine Corps Reserve. So he's
interested in that. He likes the Marines, wants to
stay in the Marines. But he's not in the active
reserve right now, although he was for a number of
years. And your adopted brother, did he? No, he's
never been in the military, never had any interest
in it at all. I wonder why that is. I don't know. The
difference between siblings here we're talking
about. I have no idea. Of course, my interest in the
military goes back. Oh, we're going to get to that.
Oh, okay. I want to ask one last question about your
parents, and that is that you became a general
officer and a vice president of a university,
obviously a success. In what way can you attribute
that to your parents? I think they instilled in me
the importance of hanging on. persistence.
If I get a little emotional, it's because I'm
remembering things that I don't remember too
often.
When I came to A&M, it cost $50 a month for room,
board, books, uniforms, the whole works. We
didn't have it. That's hard to believe that a
family wouldn't have $50 a month. But...
After dad would work on the mail route and mother
would take care of the house, let me take a sip of
coffee. This is kind of personal. But still, I'd
like to answer it. No, I'd like to answer it. Give me
just a minute here. It's time to turn this over. OK.
But after the regular work day was over, they'd go
out in the afternoon and pick cotton, send me to
school. You think that won't impact you.
But
you don't forget things like that. And you just
keep on keeping on and no matter what comes along,
you just hang in there. And it always pays,
especially if you're doing the right thing. But I
think that Persistence and hanging on through
adversity is the most important lesson I learned
from mother and dad. Because we all have it. No
matter how. All the siblings have it, you mean.
Yes. And I think most people, now they may define it
in different ways, but no matter how wealthy your
family is, how poor they are, we all have
adversity. Now what I may define as adversity,
someone else may think, boy, how lucky can you get?
But we all have problems. We all have to face it in
our own way. And whatever way individuals can well
up inside them to carry them through these bad
times, that's what makes the difference, I think.
And so I think that mother and dad instilled in me
those important principles of hanging on and
sticking with it and don't quit. just because the
going gets tough. Does that kind of get to? Can you
tell me about your education now? Yes, I sure can. I
was, of course, once again went to Bruce Leddy
schools up through my sophomore year in high
school. Well, due to the influence of my two aunts
who were nurses and of course my mother being a
nurse. I'd been around doctors and hospitals and
nurses and things like that. And mother was
convinced that I would make a good doctor. She
always had a dream that I would be a doctor. And in a
little country school like ours, the only science
course we had was vocational agriculture. No
chemistry, no biology, none of that kind of thing.
And so They arranged for me to go to school in Waco,
Waco High School, which was one of the biggest high
schools in the state. Well, I'd always been the
leader in my little peer group, or one of the
leaders. There were only about 20 kids in my whole
high school class, half boys, half girls, and we
all just kind of grew up together almost like a
family. Well, I was thrust suddenly from the
security of my surroundings and being tops in my
class classically in a little bitty country
school into one of the largest high schools in the
state, just instantly, Waco High School. This is
10th grade? This was beginning of my junior year,
so it would have been the 11th grade. So you were
about 15 or 16? I was 16, probably 17 maybe. And of
course, I quickly made some friends, but I really
never felt as myself of really being accepted in
the high school because I was from a little country
town. And plus the fact that a lot of them had had
some backgrounds, some academic work that I had
not had. So I had to study extra hard to make it. I was
not a good scholar at Waco High School. I was
valedictorian of my junior high class at Eddy. But
I just buried and made it at Waco High School. And I
was a very poor scholar here at A&M, primarily
because my interests were in other areas.